>> Marcy Sutton: So for
unit testing I'm using Jest, and
that's a test framework that's
really common in react applications.
I'm going to go write some tests,
and the convention here is to use,
I think it's double underscore
tests double underscore and
you put it in the component directory.
So really close to the component,
not off to the side in some
standalone test directory.
So the react testing library
is a really great resource.
So testing library.
There's things like Firing Events,
we're gonna use that.
Using queries.
So things like getBy, findBy, findAllBy,
so think of like query select all,
that kind of thing.
You can get ByLabelText.
There's a lot of really good utilities in
here and they have examples of markup that
you might be wanting to test and
then how to use the Jest,
in the testing library specifically,
to go and do things, to assert things.
The other one that I want to pull up,
because I'm going to use it to
write these tests is jest-dom.
And this is some add-ons.
They are custom Jest matchers to test
the state of the DOM, and our little
Gatsby application has these dependencies
already installed, so you can look at
the package JSON file to see what's in
there, but these matchers are great.
And the fact that they've, I think the
Gatsby docs prompted me to install this,
so I already had it, which was great.
But there's things like to be disabled
toBeEmpty toBeVisible, which would
depend on CSS to be in there, toHaveClass,
that one's really useful, toHaveFocus, and
so one, toContainElement, there’s
some really great matchers in here,
and we’re going to use them to write
some classes for our dropdown component.
So I’m going to go over there.
Close out of this tab list.
I might keep our little change to
the role to have two different examples.
Actually let's pull out package JSON and
see what we've got in here.
So dev dependencies is usually
where testing stuff lives,
because I don't wanna ship it to ever
user, like they don't need that.
[LAUGH] This is just for
development purposes.
So I've got testing-library,
I've got Cypress, so
we're gonna use that a little later.
I've got jest-dom,
there’s some react findings in here.
I've got the axe-core
library that we could use,
babel-jest to make sure we can write
some modern code in our test to
make it gets compiled to more,
I guess for testing.
You don't care about that as much,
but it can be nice.
We've got jest-transform-css.
Yeah, there's lots of good stuff in here.
So I'm going to go over to our components.
So I've got these bad components.
They don't have any tests,
cuz they're bad components, so
by definition they don't
[LAUGH] have any tests.
So in the test directory for the better
components, that's the convention too,
like I have kind of have a big
collection of components in here, but
sometimes you might group them by,
like the type of component would have its
own directory and its own test folder,
and it's nice just to have the test and
the thing you're testing in
a similar area of your code base.
So I've got this dropdown, and
the things that I want to test are like
the external API's definitely the start.
That's more of a general testing thing,
like passing in a specific name.
I could test the number of items.
I'm going to focus more on the
accessibility things, and what we coded in
here, and if I were doing this for real,
I probably would have started with test
driven development, to start with the
test, but we're doing it the other way.
That's okay too.
So the button being focusable,
I think that's something that
would be worth testing,
because it's sort of, it's part of this
component that we want to make sure
that the user can reach and operate.
I want this to be an isolated unit test,
so I think that's an okay thing to test.
I don't have to write an integration
test to capture that.
I do want to check that if I
interact with this button, and
I can use that fire event to do it, I want
to make sure that it opens this list.
So some things I could check for,
I could test for,
this active class, that would work, but
it kind of depends on the implementation.
It's something they do recommend
is adding some data attributes,
data test IDs here, so
I'm gonna add those.
Something that I could use that
might be less brutal than the active
class would be, when this dropdown
opens I want to test that focus is
set to the first item,
because that would assume that it's open,
and it's visible, and
that that focus stuff is handling.
That was happening with us effect so
the way it was coded means that that
will only happen when
the dropdown has been activated.
So that's a way that I can try and
write this test so
that it's really focused on the outcome,
and less on the implementation,
because if that CSS class has to change,
for some reason, surprise my test broke.
So I think that's the approach
I'm gonna go with for this one.
I'm gonna keep this dropdown file handy,
and the dropdown test.
So I've got one test in here so far.
This file imports react, and
imports the testing library,
which comes with a render method,
and this fireEvent I could pull in.
I import the component that I'm testing,
so the dropdown in this case.
I've got this one test so far just
to check that if I pass in a prop,
that this custom text ends up
in the page that's working okay,
cuz if it wasn't getting passed off,
it just wouldn't be in the document.
It would just kind of like get
lost in the JavaScript ether.
So I think for this,
I'm going to say it('renders a focusable
button that activates the dropdown', ().
>> Marcy Sutton: So something I did notice
when I was working through this ahead
of time was a bit of a gotcha that
the button here is using a click event.
Because it's a button,
it can fire a click.
It's not a div that required that
key listener like we talked about to
start the day.
So that means that if I'm testing for
something like on key up,
like my fire event,
that's not going to match,
because even though I'm using the keyboard
to do it, that's not how I bound my logic.
So that affects how we read this test, and
that ultimately would depend
on what events you've added,
so I'm gonna just copy some of this stuff,
the dropdown just to get it on the page.
I'm gonna give it another text just so
that my things are different.
So I've got this dropdown,
I'm actually going to,
I had these all written yesterday.
I want to go look at the docs for
a second and see what I'm going to use.
So the queries for this, I'm going to
probably use the same API to get it,
so getByText is probably fine, and that
will return the first matching node for
query, so that means I can do
some interesting assertions here.
So I think getByText is what I want.
GetByText, so, I don't care about
the text though, I care about the node.
I think the way that I did this was to add
a data, so I'm going to add a data-testid,
and I'm going to say activator,
or how about dropdown,
just, "dropdown-activator"
to be very explicit.
I'm also going to add one here
on the list, so data-testid.
I'm going to say "dropdown-itemList',
just so
that I have some handles from the testing.
These will get stripped out
once the page renders, so
I don't need to worry about them like,
they are data attributes so
they'd probably be fine, but
they won't end up in the rendered page.
They're only for testing.
>> Marcy Sutton: Okay, so
I've got this dropdown.
I want to render, I think something we
could look at is the render method for
this.
Where does that live?
So Setup, render, not on that page,
I'm just gonna search for
it, cuz I wanna know
what that API looks like.
So render creates a test render instance,
and
I can pull out different
things off of this.
So the getByText is the first thing.
I don't really care about the text.
I've already tested that, I care about
the node, so that's what I wanna get.
I think I could probably
pull out the container,
that looks pretty good.
We should rarely use the container,
so maybe not.
Debug, unmount.
>> Marcy Sutton: It's funny how they show
an example, and then they're like, but
you don't really wanna use that.
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Marcy Sutton: Maybe wrapper,
pass a react component as the wrapper
option to have it rendered around
the inner element.
Yeah, I don't really care about that.
I just want a hold of the actual DOM node.
So, here's an example where they've taken
container, they're converting it to JSON.
Let's just play with it, see what it does.
Container.
Maybe I think,
I thought I could just say dropdown,
and then just render it without pulling
that stuff off, and then I could say, so
I wanna get to the dropdown.getByTestId,
so I want that ('dropdown-activator'),
and then I really want to click that.
So I can't really test its,
I guess I could focus it,
like check if, and
maybe I do this like the activator
could be const activator
= dropdown.getByTestId,
and then if I did activator.focus(),
like try and call a focus event on it, and
this is where it depends
on your testing tools.
Selenium web driver in Cyprus, for
example, if you try to send a focus event
to a div that isn't focusable, they will
tell you that it's not focusable, but
it does depend on the testing tool doing
that, and so that's not always the case.
Jest does I think.
So I want to expect(activator.focused),
that was one of those matchers,
or was it is focused?
ToBeFocused?
ToBe-
>> Speaker 3: ToHaveFocus.
>> Marcy Sutton: ToHaveFocus, thank you.
Activator).toHaveFocus